# Setup-Client-Server-DASH-video-streaming

Steps to setup a DASH client in a Docker Container for downloading video segments from DASH server. 

**First: Setup DASH client in a Docker Container**

1- Install docker engine into your machine

`sudo apt-get install \
    apt-transport-https \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    gnupg-agent \
    software-properties-common
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce
sudo apt-cache policy docker-ce`

More details are available here https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

2- Download dashClientImage docker image from the docker hub

*`docker pull aljoby/selenium_docker_new:dashClientImage`*

3- After pulling the image, you can check it out in your machine with this command: `docker images`, then you should see

aljoby/selenium_docker_new &nbsp; &nbsp; dashClientImage &nbsp; &nbsp; 9f16ef5e64e6 &nbsp; &nbsp; 2 months ago &nbsp; &nbsp; 1.25GB

4- Run an instance of docker image (aka, container)

`sudo docker run --privileged -p 4000:4000 -v /home/walid/test/containers/container-data1:/usr/src/app -t aljoby/selenium_docker_new`

Recall you have to specify the way for data to be used by the container and the way to get the data generated by it, hence *'mount volume'* technique managed by docker engine can do that, so use flag -v to mount a directory in the host machine to the container. Example, use `-v /home/walid/test/containers/container-data1:/usr/src/app`, where /home/walid/test/containers/container-data1 is host directory (use your own one) and /usr/src/app is default container directory. 
This dashClient image needs an input of DASH server URL, client's virtual dispaly, type of browser, and others of interest. And these inputs are defined in 'example.py'. It also needs to write output information of the dashClient such as logs of streaming; outputs are to be under directory 'chrome_user_dir_real'. 
Thus, in the host directory '/home/walid/test/containers/container-data1', the input 'example.py' should be available to read from, and an empty output directory 'chrome_user_dir_real' should be available to write to.


**Second: Setup DASH server**

The setup of DASH server is similar to any Apache web server. Make sure Apache web server is running by command: `service apache2 status` , if it is running, then replace default /var/www/html directory by 'html' in this repository. This directory is prepared with dash.js client player, associated streaming techniques, metrics and logs. Also, video segments to be streamed are by default stored in /var/www/html/t1 directory. Just as a side note, the given video sample (Big Buck Bunny) switches between 3 levels of quality 1M, 2M, and 4M, each of them is an mp4 file that should be available in /html/t1. However, sizes of last two files are more than 100M each, so GitHub does not accept file higher than 100M. Try to find them in the Internet or I transfer to you in any other way.

Another way to Setup DASH server is here 
https://www.instructables.com/id/Making-Your-Own-Simple-DASH-MPEG-Server-Windows-10/


**Then, you are ready to start video streaming from DASH server to the DASH client running inside the container.** Remember to replace IP address 10.10.10.22 with your own DASH server's IP address. The change should be made in the 'example.py' and 'html/dash/samples/dash-if-reference-player/t1.html' files.



